                 Technology & Innovation Lab
                                Korea Office



EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES
CURATION SERIES
Issue #5:
Generative Artificial Intelligence
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
WB Korea Office
Jason Michael Allford (Special Representative)
WBG, Information Technology Solutions, Technology and Innovation Lab (ITSTI)
Yusuf Karacaoglu (Director and Senior Advisor), Stela Mocan (Manager), Jinhee Park (IT
Officer), Yongdae Kim (IT Officer), Yusaku Kawashima (Senior IT Officer)




© 2023 The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000
Internet: www.worldbank.org
This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank with external contributions. The findings,
interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this work do not necessarily reflect the views of The
World Bank, its Board of Executive Directors, or the governments they represent.
The World Bank does not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in this work. The
boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do not
imply any judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or
the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

Rights and Permissions
The material in this work is subject to copyright. Because The World Bank encourages dissemination
of its knowledge, this work may be reproduced, in whole or in part, for noncommercial purposes
as long as full attribution to this work is given.
Any queries on rights and licenses, including subsidiary rights, should be addressed to World Bank
Publications, The World Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA; fax: 202-
522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
                 Technology & Innovation Lab
                                Korea Office



EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES
CURATION SERIES
Issue #5:
Generative Artificial Intelligence
Contents

Acronyms............................................................................................................... 5
Introduction........................................................................................................... 6

I.	    The Basics of Generative Artificial Intelligence.............................. 7

II.	 Brief History of Generative AI...................................................... 10

III.	 Types of Generative AI and How It Works.................................... 14
      Explicit Density Models................................................................................ 15
      Implicit Density Models............................................................................... 16

iV.	 Benefits of Generative AI............................................................. 20
      Creativity and Scalability ............................................................................. 21
      Efficiency and Productivity........................................................................... 21

V.	 Generative AI Applications in Industry......................................... 22
      Health Care and Pharmaceuticals............................................................... 23
      Manufacturing.............................................................................................. 24
      Media, Art, and Entertainment.................................................................... 25
      Fashion.......................................................................................................... 25
      E-commerce and Marketing........................................................................ 26

VI.	 Opportunities for International Development.............................. 27

VII.	 Limitations and Considerations.................................................... 29

VIII.	AI in Korea................................................................................... 32
      Public Sector Initiatives................................................................................ 33
        Korean Approach to AI................................................................................. 33
           Strategies for and Approaches to Generative AI ........................................ 35
      Private Sector Initiatives............................................................................... 36
Acronyms
AI	       Artificial Intelligence
BERT	     Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers
RoBERT	   Robustly Optimized BERT
CLIP 	    Contrastive Language Image Pre-training
GAN	      Generative Adversarial Network
GPT	      Generative Pretrained Transformer
LLM	      Large Language Model
MCST	     Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism
MSIT	     Ministry of Science and ICT
MTIE	     Ministry of Trade, Industry Energy
NLP	      Natural Language Processing
SOC	      Social Overhead Capital
GSN	      Generative Stochastic Network
CNN	      Convolutional Neural Network
RNN	      Recurrent Neural Network
NADE	     Neural Autoregressive Density Estimator
MADE	     Masked Autoencoder for Distribution Estimation
VAE	      Variational Autoencoders
RMF	      Risk Management Framework
CVPR	     Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
ADA	      Adaptive Discriminator Augmentation
DNA	      Deoxyribonucleic Acid
                                                         INTRODUCTION

                       Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has been developing rapidly and has attracted
                       significant attention in recent years, with numerous advances and breakthroughs.
                       The generative AI market is expected to grow from $1.5 billion in 2021 to $6.5
                       billion by 2026—a compound annual growth rate of 34.9 percent.1

                       Acknowledging the growing importance of generative AI in research and practical
                       applications, including its use to solve international development challenges, this
                       report provides a comprehensive overview of generative AI, introduces the basics,
                       explains its development over time, and examines its types and applications. After
                       highlighting the benefits and capabilities of generative AI, the report explores how
                       it can be applied in various industries such as health care, manufacturing, media,
                       and entertainment and then discusses potential opportunities and limitations
                       users must consider. Finally, it describes initiatives and strategies that the Korean
                       government and private sector players have implemented to adopt and advance
                       generative AI in Korea and the global marketplace.

                       The fifth issue in the Emerging Technology series, “Generative AI” is the result of
                       a collaboration effort of the World Bank Group Information Technology Solutions
                       Technology and the World Bank Korea Country Office. The series captures
                       new technology and trends and shares knowledge to help solve international
                       development challenges.


                       1	   MarketsandMarkets. “Generative AI Market Size, Trends, Drivers, Opportunities & Global Forecast - 2030.” https://
                            www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/generative-ai-market-142870584.html?gclid=Cj0KCQjwu-KiBhCsARIs-
                            APztUF0gXS7BeDcvYDNoFzfnFc2h8SwFE1eGogR5ZrF-YGrVmYpjmpuxEwcaAq1OEALw_wcB.




6   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
I.
THE BASICS OF
GENERATIVE
ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE
                G
                        artner, Inc. announced the keyword “generative artificial intel-
                        ligence (AI)” as a top strategic technology trend in strategic
                        technology for 20221 and predicted that, by 2025, generative AI
                will generate 10 percent of all data, up from less than 1 percent currently.
                Generative AI is a disruptive machine-learning algorithm that learns about
                content from data and uses it to produce creative, realistic, completely
                new outputs. It is not a technology that works only in a world with a lot
                of data, which data-driven AI is good at; it can create new things from
                a small amount of information and can be used in various fields and for
                various applications.
                      •	 Art and design: Generative AI creates unique, diverse artwork such as digital paintings,
                         three-dimensional designs, and animation. OpenAI’s DALLE2 and Stabiilty.AI’s Stable
                         Diffusion are popular examples of such domains. Lexica.art is a web site that collects
                         images created using generative AI by Stable Diffusion (Figure 1).2
                      •	 Music: AI algorithms can generate music tracks using input data and user preferences
                         and can analyze existing music data, understand patterns and structure, and generate
                         music that aligns with user preferences and specific criteria such as genre, style, or
                         mood.
                      •	 Text: Generative AI can produce content, creating articles, stories, poetry, and
                         programming code and can be used to generate automated responses to customer
                         inquiries for customer service. ChatGPT (generative pretrained transformer) from
                         OpenAI is a popular example of this application.3
                      •	 Speech: Generative AI can take content and create appropriate voice audio. The user
                         inputs text, and AI converts it to voice in real time. The generated speech can be used
                         for various purposes, including voice response systems and virtual assistants. Unlike
                         traditional text-to-speech systems, it generates more–natural sounding,-expressive
                         speech.4

                1	    Gartner. 2021. “Gartner Identifies the Top Strategic Technology Trends for 2022.” https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-re-
                      leases/2021-10-18-gartner-identifies-the-top-strategic-technology-trends-for-2022.
                2	    Lexica.art. https://lexica.art/.
                3	    OpenAI. “Introducing ChatGPT” https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/
                4	    WellSaid Labs. https://wellsaidlabs.com/



8   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
 FIGURE 1.
 IMAGES CREATED USING GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE




Source: Lexica.ar.




                                            I.The Basics of Generative Artificial Intelligence   9
II.
BRIEF
HISTORY OF
GENERATIVE AI
G
        enerative AI was developed beginning in the 1950s and the 1960s,
        when computer graphics systems began to be developed using
        traditional statistical models, such as Markov models and Monte
Carlo simulations. Ian Goodfellow and colleagues introduced the generative
adversarial network (GAN) in 2014, which has become one of the most
popular and successful generative models.5 After that, the public became
aware of generative AI. Turing Award–winning computer scientist Yann
LeCun described GAN models as “the most interesting idea in the last
ten years in Machine Learning.”
Progress in generative AI has continued rapidly, fueled by the availability of more-extensive,
more-diverse data sets, better algorithms, and more-powerful computer hardware. Generative
AI is used for many applications, including image and video synthesis, speech synthesis, and
language generation. It remains an active research area, with new models and applications
being developed constantly.
In 2017, the transformer model,6—a groundbreaking method in the field of natural language
processing—was proposed. Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT3, RoBERT, Gopher,
and BERT started to gain widespread popularity and adoption.7 LLMs are a type of neural
network model that are called LLMs because of their size. A language model usually consists
of hundreds of billions of parameters. Because of the model’s size, it can learn about complex
relationships between words and phrases in the input text. For example, BERT had about 340
million parameters. OpenAI’s GPT-2 (introduced in 2019) has 1.5 billion parameters, and GPT-3
(introduced in 2020) has 175 billion. The size of these models determines their quality. A
model with many parameters allows things to be done that could not be done before.8 These
large models have achieved state-of-the-art performance on a wide range of natural language
processing tasks (Figure 2). The natural language processing tasks encompass sentiment
analysis, question answering, text summarization, text classification, text generation, and more.
Since the initial development of LLMs, technology companies have developed super-LLMs.


5	   Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio.
     2014. “Generative Adversarial Networks.” https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.2661.
6	   Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017.
     “Attention Is All You Need.” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30.
7	   Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. “BERT: Pre-Training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for
     Language Understanding.” arXiv:1810.04805.
8	   Jordi TORRES.AI. 2022. “Transformers: The Bigger, the Better,” https://towardsdatascience.com/transformers-the-bigger-the-better-
     19f39f222ee3.




                                                                                                                    II.Brief History of Generative AI   11
                In 2021, OpenAI introduced DALL-E, a generative AI model that can create images from text.
                It is based on the transformer model, like other LLMs, and is trained on a massive dataset
                of images and textual descriptions so that it can learn to associate the two modalities in a
                way that is capable of generating highly detailed, imaginative images that do not exist in the
                real world. In 2022, Midjourney9 and Stable Diffusion,10 AI programs similar to DALL-E that
                generate images from textual descriptions, were introduced. Midjourney is an independent
                research lab whose service can be accessed using a Discord bot. It produces an image that
                resembles a piece of art rather than a photograph. It can be used for free up to 25 times.


                 FIGURE 2.
                 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM CAPABILITIES IN IMAGES
                 AND LANGUAGE




                Source: Douwe Kiela, Max Bartolo, Yixin Nie, Divyansh Kaushik, Atticus Geiger, Zhengxuan Wu, Bertie Vidgen,
                Grusha Prasad, Amanpreet Singh, Pratik Ringshia, Zhiyi Ma, Tristan Thrush, Sebastian Riedel, Zeerak Waseem,
                Pontus Stenetorp, Robin Jia, Mohit Bansal, Christopher Potts, Adina Williams. 2021. “Dynabench: Rethinking
                Benchmarking in NLP” Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association
                for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, 4110–4124. https://aclanthology.org/2021.
                naacl-main.324/.




                9	    Midjourney. https://midjourney.com/
                10	   Stable Diffusion. https://stablediffusionweb.com/




12   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
 FIGURE 3.
 INPUT AND OUTPUT OF TEXT-TO-IMAGE GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL
 INTELLIGENCE (AI) MODEL




         “A Rocket                                           Text-to-image
           with a                                         generative AI model
         mountain”




In 2022, Stability AI created Stable Diffusion, an open-source model; all information is shared
so that individuals freely access and utilize the model as all information is openly shared
Various models that researchers have tuned to suit their taste have also been published.11
Because it is open source, anyone can download the trained dataset and build their own
image-generation model. In this way, Stable Diffusion has created an environment in which
developers and designers can easily apply image generative AI models, which has played a
leading role in creating the current generative AI global trend.




11	   Stable Diffusion Version2. https://github.com/Stability-AI/stablediffusion.




                                                                                    II.Brief History of Generative AI   13
III.
TYPES OF
GENERATIVE AI
AND HOW IT
WORKS
I
  an Goodfellow, who invented the GAN, has categorized generative
  AI models into two categories based on how they model the target
  data distribution. The criterion he used is how the model defines the
probability density function for the target data distribution. According
to the defined probability density function, one can generate new data
by sampling from the data distribution. Explicit density models use the
density function, and implicit density models do not. Implicit density
models define a stochastic procedure that directly generates outputs.

 FIGURE 4.
 STRUCTURE OF GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MODELS

                                                                                                                 Direct
                                                        GEN ERAT IVE M ODELS                                      GAN



                                         Explicit density                              Implicit density


                 Tractable density                             Approximate density                         Markov Chain

          Fully Visible Belief Nets                                                                              GSN
          • NADE
                                                   Variational                         Markov Chain
          • MADE
          • PixelRNN/CNN                         Variational                       Boltzmann Machine
          Change of variables                   Autoencoder
          models (nonlinear ICA)

Source: Ian Goodfellow, Tutorial on Generative Adversarial Networks




Explicit Density Models
Explicit density models define a density function for the data distribution, and then a sample
is used from this density function to generate new outputs. Explicit density models can be
divided into two sub-categories, depending on whether they are tractable density model
or approximate density model.
A variational autoencoders (VAE)12 is a popular example of this type of model. It consists
of an encoder that maps input data to a reduced space (latent space) and a decoder that
generates new data samples from data in a latent space. The latent space is typically chosen
to be a lower-dimensional space than the input space and follows a multivariate gaussian
distribution. During training, the encoder estimates the mean and the standard deviation of
the latent space. After the training, the encoder is no longer used, and the estimated mean
and standard deviation of the distribution are used to sample the latent variables, which
are then passed through the decoder to generate a new output sample.

12	   Diederik P. Kingma and Max Welling. 2013. “Auto-Encoding Variational Bayes.” https://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.6114.pdf.




                                                                                                   III.Types of Generative AI and How It Works   15
                 FIGURE 5.
                 ARCHITECTURE OF A VARIATIONAL AUTOENCODER (VAE)



                                                              μ

                                                              σ

                 Input Image           Encoder                          Latent Space     Decoder       Generated Image




                Implicit Density Models
                In contrast to explicit density models, implicit density models define an implicit represen-
                tation of the data distribution and generate new outputs by transforming random noise into
                samples that belong to the target distribution.
                Examples of implicit density models include Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), which
                consist of a generator that produces data and a discriminator that distinguishes data (Figure 6).
                The generator tries to fool the discriminator by generating data that look as much like real
                data as possible, and the discriminator tries to distinguish between real and fake data. The
                generator’s objective is to create data that are indistinguishable from the real data, and the
                discriminator’s objective is to identify which data are real and which are fake. The inventor
                of GAN, Ian Goodfellow, described this relationship as follows: “The generator is like counter-
                feiters who are trying to mint fake money, and the discriminator is like a police officer who
                distinguishes between fake and real money.”


                 FIGURE 6.
                 ARCHITECTURE OF A GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NETWORK




                  Real Image                                                                           Fake or Real?




                  Latent Space              Generator               Fake Image         Discriminator




16   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
In the training phase, the discriminator is trained first, then the generator, and the process is
repeated back and forth. The discriminator classifies real and fake data from the generator and
is trained to be penalized for misclassifying real data as fake or fake data as real. This process
allows the discriminator to classify real data as real and fake data as fake. Once a discriminator
has been trained, the generator must be trained to fool the trained discriminator; fake data
that the generator generates are fed into the discriminator, and the generator is trained to
produce data that are similar enough to the real data to classify the fake data as real.
As the training process is repeated, the discriminator and the generator evolve to perceive
each other as hostile competitors. As a result, the generator can create fake data that is the
same as real data, and the discriminator cannot distinguish between real and fake data. In
other words, GAN is designed to compete with each other, with the generation model trying
to reduce the probability of successful classification and the classification model trying to
increase the probability of successful classification. In the end, data can be generated that
look like real data using only the trained generator.
Another example of an implicit density model is the diffusion model, which is the model
behind stable diffusion that Stability AI introduced in 2022.13 The diffusion model is a deep
generative model for generating data that uses a forward process (diffusion process) that
adds noise to the data little by little to turn the data into complete noise and then uses a
reverse process that gradually removes the noise to recover the original data (Figure 7).
Stable Diffusion, the generation model of text to image using the diffusion model, has played
an important role in the artistic and creative fields of AI.14


 FIGURE 7.
 DIFFUSION AND DENOISING PROCESS IN DIFFUSION MODEL




Source: “CVPR 2022 Tutorial: Denoising Diffusion-based Generative Modeling: Foundations and Applications.”
https://cvpr2022-tutorial-diffusion-models.github.io/.

Stable Diffusion has three major components: contrastive language image pre-training, UNet,
and variational autoencoders. When a user enters text, a text encoder (contrastive language
image pre-training) converts the text into a language that UNet can understand, called a
token, and UNet denoises randomly generated noise based on the token. Repeated denoising
results in a proper image, and the variational autoencoder converts this image into pixels.
The overall flow to generate an image is shown in Figure 8.



13	   Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. 2022.”High-Resolution Image Synthesis with
      Latent Diffusion Models.” Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. https://arxiv.org/
      abs/2112.10752.
14	   Alberto Rometo. 2022. “Stable Diffusion Is the Most Important AI Art Model Ever.” https://thealgorithmicbridge.substack.com/p/
      stable-diffusion-is-the-most-important.



                                                                                                   III.Types of Generative AI and How It Works   17
                 FIGURE 8.
                 ILLUSTRATED STABLE DIFFUSION


                                                           Latent Seed                              User Prompt
                                                       Gaussian noise ~N(0,1)               "An astronout riding a horse"



                                                                           64×64
                                                                                                       Frozen CLIP
                                                                           latents
                                                                                                      Text Encoder



                                                                                                                77×768
                                Scheduler                                                                       text embeddings
                                algorithm                  Text conditioned
                              "reconstruct"                  latent UNet




                                       repeat N
                                       scheduler steps                    64×64
                                                                          conditioned latents




                                                            Variational
                                                       Autoencoder Decoder




                                                                                   512×512
                                                                                   output image




                Source: Suraj Patil, Pedro Cuenca, Nathan Lambert, and Patrick von Platen. 2022. “Stable Diffusion with
                Diffusers.” https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion.

                Unlike conventional image-generation models, which use exponentially increasing resources
                as the resolution increases, this model introduces autoencoders at the front and back to
                remove noise in the latent space of much smaller dimensions instead of the entire image.
                This allows for a drastic reduction in resource use, even for high-resolution images, making
                it possible to use a general home graphics card. Before this development, text-to-image
                models such as DALL-E and Midjourney were available only through cloud services; this
                new approach is a departure from that proprietary model. As a result, individuals, rather
                than companies, are creating many modified models and sharing them via Hugging Face
                and others. They have also implemented and released a browser interface to make it easier
                for people to generate these images.15

                15	   “Stable Diffusion Web UI.” https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui.




18   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
IV.
BENEFITS OF
GENERATIVE AI
                Creativity and Scalability
                Although overreliance on generative AI can limit creative thinking,16 generative AI can
                benefit businesses and individuals in terms of creativity and scalability, enabling them to
                produce innovative, personalized content. Users and businesses can generate new ideas and
                concepts using generative AI, leading to new inventions and driving innovation. By providing
                suggestions and alternatives, generative AI models can augment human creativity and help
                users create text, images, and videos easily with their new ideas in a visually appealing way.
                Inventions can be made by leveraging generative AI in such areas as synthesizing chemicals
                and generating patterns.




                Efficiency and Productivity
                Generative AI can increase efficiency and automate time-consuming manual work. LLMs and
                image models can be used to automate and identify patterns and generate personalized
                content based on individual user preferences, allowing users and businesses to complete
                tasks and achieve results more quickly and efficiently.
                High-quality videos and images can be created with less effort than creating them manually.
                Especially for nonprofessionals who have little knowledge of content generation, generative
                AI can fill the gap and enable them to generate high-quality output without having to start
                from zero. It democratizes the user experience, with nonprofessionals, researchers, and
                developers engaging in user experience tasks without deep design training or education.
                It can be used to identify and reduce noise in images and videos, increasing the overall
                quality of the output of professional users as well. The images in Figure 9 were created in
                less than 1 minute using the Midjourney platform with the input text: “Person floating in
                space seeing the earth.”


                 FIGURE 9. IMAGE CREATED USING MIDJOURNEY




                Source: Midjourney

                16	   Tyna Eloundou, Sam Manning, Pamela Mishkin, and Daniel Rock. “GPTs Are Gpts: An Early Look at the Labor Market Impact Potential of
                      Large Language Models.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.10130.


20   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
V.
GENERATIVE AI
APPLICATIONS IN
INDUSTRY
                There are various applications of generative AI, including image-to-image, text-to-image, and
                photo-to-emoji conversion; image processing; film restoration; and text and audio synthesis.
                These applications can then be tailored to and used in various industries and sectors. Venture
                capital firms have invested more than $1.7 billion in generative AI technologies, with most
                investments focused on AI-powered drug discovery and AI-assisted software development.17
                Table 1 shows some generative AI use cases according to industry. Although initial foundation
                models like ChatGPT concentrate on using generative AI to enhance creative tasks, the
                applications will be expanded to real industry situations.


                 TABLE 1.
                 GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE USE CASES ACCORDING
                 TO INDUSTRY
                                                                                                    INDUSTRIES




                                                                                 ARCHITECTURE AND




                                                                                                                                                              PHARMACEUTICAL
                                                       MANUFACTURING




                                                                                                                              MANUFACTURING

                                                                                                                                              MANUFACTURING
                                                                                 ENGINEERING
                                                       AUTOMOTIVE
                                                       AND VEHICLE




                                                                                                    ENERGY AND


                                                                                                                 HEALTHCARE


                                                                                                                              ELECTRONIC
                                                                                                                 PROVIDERS


                                                                                                                              PRODUCT
                                                                                                    UTILITIES
                                                                       MEDIA




                 Drug Design
                 Material Science
                 Chip Design
                 Synthetic Data
                 Generative Design (Parts)
                Source: Gartner




                Health Care and
                Pharmaceuticals
                Generative AI can revolutionize how complex medical conditions are understood, diagnosed,
                and treated and could increase the accuracy, efficiency, and effectiveness of the health care
                system. The potential benefits of this technology include faster, more-effective treatment,
                smoother processes, and lower costs for health care providers and patients. Ultimately,
                generative AI has the potential to enhance patient outcomes and the overall quality of
                health care delivery.18 Generative AI can create medical images, such as X-rays and computed
                tomography and magnetic resonance imaging scans, increase accuracy and efficiency in

                17	   Gartner_Inc. 2023. “Beyond Chatgpt: The Future of Generative AI for Enterprises.” https://www.gartner.com/en/articles/beyond-
                      chatgpt-the-future-of-generative-ai-for-enterprises.
                18	   Charles Aunger. 2023. “Council Post: CHATGPT, Machine Learning and Generative AI in Healthcare.” Forbes https://www.forbes.com/
                      sites/forbestechcouncil/2023/03/07/chatgpt-machine-learning-and-generative-ai-in-healthcare/.



22   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
medical imaging techniques, and detect abnormalities. Generative AI, including GANs, can
create fake data after learning the properties of real data and produce synthesized data.
Synthetic data, for example in Figure 10, shows the generation of fake chest X-rays using
NVIDIA’s StyleGAN2-ADA model. Synthetic data have the potential to enlarge clinical research
datasets and simultaneously protect patient privacy, enabling institutions to expand their
data-sharing capabilities. Generative AI can accelerate creation of training materials and
simulations for medical education, providing students with valuable learning resources.


 FIGURE 10.
 GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL MODEL TO PRODUCE FAKE CHEST X-RAYS




Source: Anmol Arora and Ananya Arora. 2022. “Generative Adversarial Networks and Synthetic Patient Data:
Current Challenges and Future Perspectives.” Future Healthcare Journal 9 (2): 190–193. https://www.ncbi.nlm.
nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9345230/.

Generative AI can generate benefits for the pharmaceutical sector by streamlining drug
discovery, helping develop pharmaceutical resources, and providing personalized medicine.
For example, the variational autoencoder, a particular kind of generative model, is used to
enable the new drug discovery process. Identifying potential drug candidates and conducting
the testing based on AI simulations before moving to clinical, human, or animal trials can
reduce the time and the cost of initial drug discovery and development of medicines.




Manufacturing
Generative AI can be used in manufacturing to develop components tailored to meet objectives
and overcome limitations, used in improving performance, material selection, and production
techniques. It has been beneficial in synthesizing new materials and chemicals similar to the
original materials to produce the same level of perfection. AI has been gradually applied to
manufacturing mainly in maintenance and quality control, although its use is expanding.
Generative AI helps analyze big data from factories to identify patterns, predict behaviors
and future production, and spot anomalies, which reduces risks and costs associated with
production and increases efficiency. In a practical application, the BMW Group used automated
image recognition powered using generative AI for a range of quality assessments and
inspections. This enabled identification of pseudo-defects, which are variations that deviate
from the desired target without any faults being indicated. Generative AI helped achieve
accurate, efficient detection, ensuring high quality standards in the manufacturing processes.




                                                                                 V.Generative AI Applications in Industry   23
                Media, Art, and Entertainment
                Generative AI is also being used in the media and art. People can generate images using
                applications such as DALL·E 2 and Midjourney and create music with applications such as
                AIVA and SOUNDRAW. One can choose a genre and the length of the music or write a detailed
                prompt regarding what they want to draw. The French DJ David Guetta used generative AI to
                add deepfake vocals in the style of Eminem to a recent song and announced, “the future of
                music is in AI.”19 The music was not commercially released but indicated the impact that AI
                will have on the music industry. Generative AI has also been affecting the gaming industry,
                enabling the creation of personalized games and human-like characters. It is making gaming
                development more efficient in many ways and improving quality.
                In addition to creating content, generative AI is helping increase the resolution of video
                and images. Legacy content that was recorded in low resolution can be remastered to high
                resolution through noise removal and made sharper using generative AI. Images and videos
                can be colorized to add realistic color to monochrome contents. Hollywood has adopted
                Cuebric, the first generative AI system to produce and edit images for film and television.
                Cuebric generates images from a stable diffusion model using the normal prompt interface
                and provides a real cinematic background so that actors do not have to be on location to film.20



                Fashion
                Generative AI applications are being used to increase productivity, accelerate market entry,
                and improve customer service in the fashion industry. Generative AI could add $150 billion
                to $270 billion to the fashion industry, in particular by contributing to product innovation,
                marketing and sales, and customer experience.21
                Generative AI has great potential in product development. It can provide information about
                fashion trends and individual preferences using multiple sources of consumer data, and
                designers and their teams can design and test new items using it. For example, at the Fashion
                X AI show in Hong Kong, the Laboratory for Artificial Intelligence in Design held a fashion
                show featuring generative AI–supported designs. More than 80 outfits from 14 designers
                were created with the help of an AI-based interactive design assistant.22 The consumer
                experience can be improved using generative AI. Stitch Fix, a retail fashion brand, used AI to
                recommend clothing to customers based on GPT-3 and Dall-E2 to boost sales and increase
                customer satisfaction. DALL-E program visualizes the clothing based on requested preferences
                such as color, fabric, and style.23


                19	   British Broadcasting Company. “David Guetta Says the Future of Music Is in AI.” 2023. BBC News https://www.bbc.com/news/entertain-
                      ment-arts-64624525.
                20	   Tom Davenport. “Cuebric: Generative AI Comes to Hollywood.” 2023. Forbes https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomdav-
                      enport/2023/03/13/cuebric-generative-ai-comes-to-hollywood/?sh=3e9689db174b.
                21	   Holger Harreis, Theodora Koullias, Roger Roberts, and Kimberly Te. 2023. “Generative AI: Unlocking the Future of Fashion.” McKinsey &
                      Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/retail/our-insights/generative-ai-unlocking-the-future-of-fashion.
                22	   “From Writing Articles to Helping Stroke Patients: Here Are 6 Updates from the World of Ai This Month.” World Economic Forum.
                      https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2023/01/4-things-you-need-to-know-about-ai-january-2023/.
                23	   Thomas H. Davenport and Nitin Mittal. 2022. “How Generative AI Is Changing Creative Work.” Harvard Business Reviewhttps://hbr.
                      org/2022/11/how-generative-ai-is-changing-creative-work.



24   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
E-commerce and Marketing
Generative AI is affecting the e-commerce and marketing industry as well. It can help
develop marketing strategy; produce marketing content and even virtual images or avatars
for advertising; predict customer preferences by generating unseen but probable preference
profiles; and identify patterns and trends in popular content, enabling it to generate new
content that sticks to marketers’ logic.
Generative AI can be used to create e-commerce materials such as flyers, advertising copy,
and marketing materials. Although users must consider regulations and copyright when
creating unique content, generative AI can be used to increase productivity and creativity.
Companies providing generative AI text-generating services are growing. For example, the
generative AI platform start-up Jasper helps users create copy and content tailored to their
brand to improve the process and product,24 and the generative AI–based content-generating
startup Copy.AI25 provides writing tools for blog content, digital advertising copy, e-commerce
and sales copy, social media content, website copy, and more.




24	   Jasper.AI. https://www.jasper.ai/.
25	   Copy.AI. https://www.copy.ai/.



                                                                       V.Generative AI Applications in Industry   25
VI.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
G
        enerative AI holds great potential for addressing challenges in
        international development. It has potential to improve disaster
        relief and infrastructure development. Disaster relief involves
a complex set of tools and processes that are used not only to reduce
the number of lives lost during a disaster, but also to help communities
become more resilient. Generative AI can be used to model the impact of
natural disasters and help governments prepare for disasters by generating
new patterns of disaster using generative AI. Text and voice generation
can facilitate real-time updates and information dissemination during
emergencies, ensuring efficient communication with affected populations.
AI applications are widely used in health care to address development problems. Healthcare
and life science companies use the applications to diagnose diseases, make treatment recom-
mendations, discover new medicine, and increase patient engagement and adherence. As
discussed in the previous section, Generative AI Applications in Industry, generative AI can
generate synthetic medical images, aiding in the training and augmentation of datasets for
medical imaging. Generative models can also be employed in drug discovery and molecular
design, enabling researchers to explore new possibilities and accelerate development of
life-saving medications. Text-generation capabilities can be used to educate patients.
Generative AI can generate educational content such as quizzes, exercises, and interactive
simulations, enhancing the learning experience for students; create personalized learning
plans for any topic of interest; and recommend textbooks. Virtual tutors and language learning
companions can be created using image- and voice-generation models, providing person-
alized, adaptive learning experiences.
Generative AI can conserve wildlife. An average reduction of 69 percent in species populations
has been observed since 1970.26 Generative AI can predict and model ecological changes and
population dynamics in a region of interest, helping researchers create accurate, proactive
strategies to protect endangered species.
Generative AI also has the potential to help solve development challenges in many areas, such
as financial inclusion and human rights. It is rapidly evolving, and its capacity to contribute
to global society is projected to grow considerably. The innovative use of generative AI to
address the world’s most complex challenges is expected to increase.




26	   World Wide Fund for Nature. 2022. “Living Planet Report 2022.” https://livingplanet.panda.org/en-US/.
VII.
LIMITATIONS AND
CONSIDERATIONS
O
        ne limitation of traditional machine learning is that the algorithm
        must be modified for the input data type, but since the 2000s,
        when deep learning started gaining attention, it has been
recognized for its ability to highlight and address these limitations, offering
solutions that alleviate the need for extensive algorithm modification
based on input date types. Generative AI has gained interest in recent
years because of potential applications in various fields and technological
breakthroughs.
In April 2022, when DALL-E2 was released, it surprised people with dramatic quality improve-
ments over DALL-E1. About four months later, Stability AI released Stable Diffusion, an
all-open-source image-generation AI tool, and images generated using DALL-E2 began to
spread on Twitter and other social media. The data used for training were also published
as open source from the beginning, which spurred further development of generative AI
technologies.
Within five days of its release at the end of 2022, ChatGPT, conversational AI based on
large-scale language models, had more than 1 million users; by January 2023, it had 100
million users. ChatGPT is conversational AI that can answer questions and write poetry and
even programming code in any language. There has been an overwhelming increase in the
popularity of generative AI search keywords on Google since 2022, with two spikes in search
volume in August and November of 2022, which is when Stable Diffusion and ChatGPT went
public, respectively.


 FIGURE 11.
 GOOGLE TREND FOR GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL
 INTELLIGENCE KEYWORDS


100


 75


 50                                                                    Note


 25


Feb 25, 20               Ago 25, 2019               Feb 21, 2021                 Aug 21, 2022



Generative AI has several limitations that are being recognized. For example, questions about
ethics in AI have emerged as a response to the personal and societal harm that can result
from such things as the negative consequences of misuse or abuse of AI systems, poor design,
and learning from biased data. In particular, with AI that generates text, it is challenging to
identify hateful or violent language data in the total data used for training because it is very
small in proportion to other data and is mixed with slang. It is even more challenging to
determine because it has different meanings depending on cultural background. Efforts are


                                                                              VII.Limitations and Considerations   29
                being made to address these concerns. Academia has also recognized these concerns, and
                the number of ethics papers is increasing. This applies not only to generative AI but also to
                AI in general, and AI can cause far-reaching damage, so it is necessary to seek appropriate
                measures and devise appropriate plans.
                Responsible use of AI will be an increasing focus for ChatGPT, especially when it is being
                used in decision making and in products and services that affect people. Use of ChatGPT
                raises many specific risks.27
                Safe use means documenting risks and making sure that the organization using ChatGPT
                is using AI responsibly for those outputs. ChatGPT use may fall under the responsible AI
                paradigm and creating trustworthy AI. This includes involving human validation and maintaining
                human in the loop during the lifecycle use. Implementing human validation in the process
                is especially important with generative AI because ChatGPT may create untrue content,
                known as hallucination. In addition, governance structures and mitigation measures must
                be defined for proper, safe use to ensure transparency, accountability, and safety. Various
                AI trustworthy frameworks, such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology Risk
                Management Framework, may be used to mitigate risk.28




                27	   “GPT4 System Card.” 2023. https://cdn.openai.com/papers/gpt-4-system-card.pdf?mc_cid=47c1f3eb5f&mc_eid=51768751d5.
                28	   U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2023. “Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0).” https://
                      nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ai/NIST.AI.100-1.pdf.



30   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
VIII.
AI IN KOREA
                Public Sector Initiatives
                Governments around the world have been adopting AI technology at an accelerating rate that
                skyrocketed with the COVID-19 pandemic. Although there is still some uncertainty because
                the technology is evolving, because of the advantages of the technology, governments are
                increasing their investments. McKinsey Global Institute modeling of trends in AI adoption
                revealed that AI has the potential to deliver additional global economic output of about $13
                trillion by 2030, which would increase global gross domestic product by approximately 1.2
                percent per year.29 There are many examples of global AI applications and use by governments
                to improve social welfare, national health care systems, domestic security and surveillance,
                and transportation. The Korean government has recognized the importance of adopting and
                using AI and its significance of scaling digital initiatives.


                KOREAN APPROACH TO AI
                The Korean government released its national strategy for AI on December 17, 2019, with
                the vision of Toward Global IT Leader, led by the Ministry of Science and Information and
                Communications Technology. The strategy was formed based on the AI ecosystem, AI use, and
                people-centered AI and consists of 100 government-wide action tasks under nine strategies
                (Figure 12). Korea has announced the national AI strategy and presented the of achieving
                digital competitiveness, creating positive economic effect and improving the quality of life
                of its people by 2030.


                 FIGURE 12. KOREAN NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI)STRATEGY




                Source: Republic of Korea, Ministry of Science and ICT, National Strategy for Artificial Intelligence.

                29	   Jacques Bughin, Jeongmin Seong, James Manyika, Michael Chui, and Raoul Joshi. 2018. “Notes from the AI Frontier: Modeling the
                      Impact of AI on the World Economy.” Mckinsey Global Institute. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/artificial-intelligence/
                      notes-from-the-ai-frontier-modeling-the-impact-of-ai-on-the-world-economy.


32   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
The Ministry of Economy and Finance also announced National Strategy for Transformation
called “the Korean New Deal Initiative” to share a national development strategy to support
the country’s recovery from the pandemic. The plan is to invest 160 trillion won to create
approximately 1.9 million jobs by 2025 based on the Digital New Deal and the Green New
Deal, with the goal of building a digital economy and fostering innovation. Focus areas
include integration of data, the 5G network, and AI (Figure 13) throughout the economy;
digitalization of the education infrastructure; fostering and digitalization of social overhead
capital (capital that the state owns that is used to produce goods and services that are not
generally sold for money).


 FIGURE 13.
 KOREAN NEW DEAL DATA, 5G NETWORK, ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI)
  (DNA) ECOSYSTEM




Source: Republic of Korea, Ministry of Economy and Finance, Korean New Deal


AI takes up a big part throughout the Digital New Deal. The government plans to build a
data ecosystem and establish a data control tower for integrated management of public
and private data. The goal is to disclose 142,0000 public data and collect 1,300 types of
additional data for AI training. The plan is also designed to expand integration of AI into
industries and make a smart government that uses AI. The Korean government created the
Smart Korea Fund with 6 trillion won and provides vouchers for AI solutions to 3,400 small
and medium-sized enterprises.
With its New Deal strategy, Korea is expected to transform into the smarter country to use
data and digital technologies, including AI, and leads the innovative public services.




                                                                                            VIII.AI in Korea   33
                STRATEGIES FOR AND APPROACHES TO
                GENERATIVE AI
                Use of generative AI is still in early stages, and its impact on society and the global market
                will continue to grow. Governments are cognizant of the emergence of this technology and
                have been working to understand the technology and devise strategies to adopt it.
                Considering the risks and unknown potential of the technology, it is critical for policy makers
                and public and private sector entities to consider the importance of establishing a solid
                governance framework and ethics so that positive expansion of generative AI and goods
                and services derived from the new technologies can be supported.30
                The Korean government has been actively pursuing development and adoption of generative
                AI technologies. According to the 2023 Master Plan for Research and Development Projects
                in the Ministry of Science and ICT (MSIT) of the Republic of Korea, the government plans to
                invest 6.41 trillion won in 2023 to support development of innovative digital technologies.
                In February 2023, Minister Lee Jong-ho of the Ministry of Science and ICT Technology discussed
                the trend and policy direction of ChatGPT with Korean AI companies and academic experts.
                The AI-data subcommittee discussed the potential of ChatGPT programs that can be used
                in government work, such as for writing emails, press releases, and social network service
                publicity texts targeted to government employees.31 The ministry reported that “the AI policies
                that the Korean government established so far, such as data platform, computing resources,
                and AI R&D support, will serve as a foundation for the growth of the giant AI industry.”32
                The Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism (MCST) announced the official launch of three
                working groups to prepare the cultural, institutional, and industrial foundation that generative
                AI and ChatGPT will bring. In particular, the focus will be on improving the copyright system,
                learning the Korean text corpus for Korean proficiency of AI, and using AI in content creation
                and industry applications.
                Because there is a no existing governance system or regulations regarding generative AI,
                especially for content that ChatGPT has created, the copyright system improvement working
                group is working to look into the copyrighted works for AI learning data, identify legal status
                of AI outputs and recognition in the copyright system, and examine copyright infringement
                and regulations.




                30	   Benjamin Larsen and Jayant Narayan. 2023. “Generative AI: A Game-Changer Society Needs to Be Ready For.” https://www.weforum.
                      org/agenda/2023/01/davos23-generative-ai-a-game-changer-industries-and-society-code-developers/.
                31	   “과기정통부, LG·SK·네이버와 초거대ai 경쟁력 제고방안 논의, 코리아타임스.” 2023. https://www.koreaittimes.com/news/articleView.
                      html?idxno=119700.
                32	   “Ai 무한 경쟁시대...한국은?” 데일리굿뉴스, 데일리굿뉴스.” 2023, https://www.goodnews1.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=416252.




34   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
In 2023, the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism formed the AI Taskforce for Digital
Contents Sector, consisting of nine experts from the public and private sectors to respond
to use of generative AI in the digital contents industry. The task force plans to build and
distribute 25 types of high-quality Korean text corpus, comprising about 120 million words,
to develop the Korean version of ChatGPT. The plan includes development of a pilot program
to evaluate the system to verify whether the generative AI model understands Korean and
has knowledge of Korean society and culture.33
The Korean government announced that it plans to increase the number of companies
using AI from 1 percent as of January 2023 to 30 percent by 2030 and foster more than 100
globally competitive AI companies. The Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy (MTIE) held
the Industrial Digital Transition Committee and established an industrial AI internalization
strategy focused on internalizing AI technology and expanding industry applications, which
have mostly been limited to finance and administrations.34




Private Sector Initiatives
                                  KAKAO
                                  Kakao is a Korean Internet company that provides a diverse set of
                                  services, including entertainment, fashion, finance, investment, trans-
                                  portation, and others. The company is known for Kakao Talk, a free
                                  mobile instant messaging application for smartphones that offers
                                  text and call features similar to WhatsApp. Kakao is set to create a
                                  10 billion won fund by June 2023 to establish an ecosystem for AI
                                  startups. Kakao launched Karlo, a generative AI technology that it
                                  developed based on image-generation AI models developed by Kakao
                                  Brain, Kakao’s research subsidiary.35
                                  Kakao Brain released KoGPT, a generative AI service, in 2021 based on
                                  OpenAI’s GPT-3 model; an advanced version will be released based
                                  on GPT 3.5.36 Kakao Brain has also released minDall-E, a large-scale
                                  AI system.37




33	   “‘한국어 잘하는’ K-챗GPT 만든다...올해 고품질 말뭉치 1억2000만 어절 공급.” 서울경제. 2023. https://www.sedaily.com/NewsView/29LUMGTUJ1.
34	   “2030년까지 AI 활용기업 30%로 늘린다... 공급기업 100개 이상 육성.” 세계일보. 세계일보. 2023. https://www.segye.com/
      newsView/20230113507585.
35	   Ko Min-suh and Han Yubin. 2023. “Kakao to Create $7.6mn Fund to Support AI Startups—Pulse by Maeil Business News Korea.”
      https://m.pulsenews.co.kr/view.php?year=2023&no=160078.
36	   Baek Byung-yeul. 2023. “Kakao to Release Generative AI Models.” Korea Times https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/
      tech/2023/03/133_346465.html.

37	   “minDALLE-E on Conceptual Captions.” 2021. https://github.com/kakaobrain/minDALL-E.




                                                                                                                                 VIII.AI in Korea   35
                                                   NAVER
                                                  Naver is a Korean online platform that the Naver Corporation launched
                                                  in 1999 that was introduced as the first web portal in South Korea
                                                  to develop and use its own search engine.38 Naver became the third
                                                  company to introduce its own large-scale language model with
                                                  HyperCLOVA, after OpenAI’s GPT-3 and Huawei’s PanGu-α. According to
                                                  Naver, HyperCLOVA was processed with 50 years of Naver articles; the
                                                  amount of Korean language-based dataset that HyperCLOVA learned
                                                  is 6,500 times as large as that of GPT-3.39 By advancing from the
                                                  existing development method that relied on developer expertise,
                                                  CLOVA provides a service that allows anyone to develop and tune
                                                  AI through HyperCLOVA, which has already learned a considerable
                                                  amount of data.




                38	   NAVER Company. https://www.navercorp.com/en/naver/company.
                39	   “As AI War Rages, Korea Seeks a Place among Giants.” 2023. Korea joongAng Daily https://koreajoongangdaily.joins.com/2023/02/08/
                      business/tech/Korea-ChatGPT-AI/20230208191532013.html.



36   Emerging Technologies Curation Series | Generative Artificial Intelligence
